Adds the recommended scenarios for different needs cases. (#180)
mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture: source/deployment-paradigms/multi-region.txt

documentation.

.. note::

   Multi-region deployments are available only for ``M10`` dedicated
   {+clusters+} and larger.

Multi-Region Deployment Strategies
----------------------------------
Consider the 3 deployments in the following image:

.. figure:: /includes/images/multi-region-types.png
   :figwidth: 750px
   :alt: An image showing three types of multi-region deployments

The first example shows a deployment to multiple regions in the same geography.  
This is a good solution if you have an application that has users primarily 
located in a single geography (in this case, the U.S.). You create a multi-region 
deployment in three regions within the U.S. This ensures low latency, 
since all regions are within the same geography, while also offering high 
availability if there's a regional outage on one of the nodes 
(for example, if ``us-east-1`` goes down).

The second example shows a deployment to a single region in each of multiple 
geographies. This is a good option if your application requires  
high availability for users in multiple geographies but you are willing to trade 
slightly higher latency for lower costs. You create a multi-region 

> deployment with a region located in the U.S., Europe, and Asia.  
> 
> This is also a good strategy for complying with local regulations like GDPR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
deployment with a region located in the U.S., Europe, and Asia. This is also a good strategy for complying with local regulations like GDPR.
```

The most complex example of a multi-region deployment has multiple regions in 
multiple geographies, ensures the highest level of availability with a single 
provider. If your application requires the very highest level of availability 
and lowest latency, consider a :ref:`arch-center-paradigms-multi-cloud`.

Within these broad deployment strategies, there are additional configurations 

> to meet your more specific needs. The following use cases outline specific 
> examples that may be similar to your own needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to meet your more specific needs. The following architectures describe specific 
examples that might meet your own needs.
```

.. _arch-center-multi-region-5+3:

5-Node, 3-Region Architecture
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have a mission-critical application that requires both high availability 
and low latency, you need to deploy your MongoDB nodes and your application in 

> multiple regions. Depending on your customers' locations, you may need to deploy 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
multiple regions. Depending on your users' locations, you might need to deploy 
```

to regions in several different geographies. 

To achieve this level of availability and latency, we recommend an architecture 
that consists of a minimum of 5 nodes spread over at least 3 regions. This 
architecture provides high availability in at least 2 regions. If a node goes 
down, the traffic can be served from the same region to ensure the same latency 
on the primary region. 

.. figure:: /includes/images/multi-region-5+3.png
   :figwidth: 750px
   :alt: An image showing three types of multi-region deployments

Notes and Considerations
````````````````````````

> - Deploy your app servers in each region that MongoDB nodes are 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deploy your application servers in each region that MongoDB nodes are 
```

  deployed. This gives you the ability to route read requests to the in-region  

>   node, which reduces the response time to your end-users, and offloads requests 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  node, which reduces the response time to your users, and offloads requests 
```

>   from the primary node. Write requests are always be directed to the primary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  from the primary node. Write requests are always directed to the primary.
```

- Use :atlas:`private endpoints <data-federation/admin/manage-private-endpoint/>`

>   for connecting to the cluster, and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  to connect to the cluster, and 
```

  :atlas:`VPC peering <atlas-stream-processing/manage-vpc-peering-connections/>` 

>   between your app server VPCs. VPC peering ensures that if a network connection 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  between your application server VPCs. VPC peering ensures that if a network connection 
```

provides that level of availability by using 5 nodes in 2 regions. You have 3 
electable nodes spread across the 2 regions, and also have 2 read-only nodes in 
the secondary region. The electable nodes are in the **majority region**, while 
the region with fewer electable nodes is the **minority region**.

This is also an appropriate architecture if you need high availability and low 
latency in a geography that only has 2 regions.

This is a good option for:

- Customers with only 2 approved regions.
- Meeting governance compliance about data storage.
- Applications where read operations need high uptime, but write operations can 
  experience some outage.

.. figure:: /includes/images/multi-region-5+2.png
   :figwidth: 750px
   :alt: An image showing three types of multi-region deployments

Notes and Considerations
````````````````````````
This architecture provides increased protection 
against data loss, even in full regional outage. The system remains available 
in read-only mode in the secondary region if the primary region is lost. 

While this architecture is less expensive than the 5-Node, 3-Region solution 

> provided above, the reduced cost comes with some caveats:

Reviewer: Should these be bullet points?

Author: I'm not sure I agree here. I've changed the first para to make it clear that the second sentence is a further description of the first sentence, not a separate point to be made. Thoughts?

nodes. In addition to the caveats listed above, data size has a significant impact 
on your decision since the data needs to be synchronized to secondaries 
whenever adding new nodes to the cluster. For example, 1 TB of data averages 1
hour of recovery and synchronization time.

.. _arch-center-multi-region-3+3:

3-Node, 3-Region Architecture
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you have an application that can experience some downtime, and 
the cost of deployment is more of a factor than availability or latency, you 
can create an architecture that is less expensive by using 1 node in each of 
3 regions. You have a electable node in each of the regions, which means if the 
primary node is unavailable, there is latency as another node is elected primary 
and writes are routed to that region. However, you still have availability if 
any region is unavailable.

.. figure:: /includes/images/multi-region-3+3.png
   :figwidth: 750px
   :alt: An image showing three types of multi-region deployments

..  _arch-center-global-deployments:

Global Deployments 
------------------

Global {+service+} deployments are the most complex multi-region deployment 

> paradigms, and therefore require very careful planning. In almost all cases,  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
paradigm, and therefore require very careful planning. In almost all cases,  
```

a :ref:`arch-center-paradigms-multi-region` (or its subset, a
:ref:`arch-center-paradigms-multi-cloud`) can fulfill your needs.

> The following are a few reasons why you might consider a global deployment 
> strategy:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might consider a global deployment strategy if:
```

- You need a single global connection string.

> - You need to perform global aggregations across all customers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You need to perform global aggregations across all users.
```

.. _arch-center-paradigms-multi-region:

================================
Multi-Region Deployment Paradigm
================================

.. default-domain:: mongodb

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: onecol

Multi-region {+service+} deployments set up {+cluster+} nodes across
multiple regions (as defined by the cloud providers). Multi-region
deployments enhance protection in the case of a :ref:`regional outage
<arch-center-regional-outage>` by automatically rerouting traffic to a
node in another region for continuous availability and a
smooth user experience. Multi-region deployments can also enhance
performance and can help meet compliance requirements for :ref:`data sovereignty
<arch-center-compliance-data-sovereignty>`, such as the EU's General Data 
Protection Regulation (GDPR) law.

> A multi-region deployment may have multiple regions within the same geography 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A multi-region deployment might have multiple regions within the same geography 
```

(a large area like a continent or country), a single region in each of several 
geographies, or multiple regions in multiple geographies.

Multi-region deployments can exist with a single cloud provider or 
multiple cloud providers. To learn about multi-cloud deployments, see 
:ref:`arch-center-paradigms-multi-cloud`.

To learn how to configure multi-region deployments and learn about the
different types of nodes you can add, see 
:atlas:`Configure High Availability and Workload Isolation 
</cluster-config/multi-cloud-distribution/>` in the {+service+}
documentation.

.. note::

   Multi-region deployments are available only for ``M10`` dedicated
   {+clusters+} and larger.

> Use Cases for Multi-Region Deployments

Reviewer: This section doesn't flow very well into the next section. The headings are the same but flipped around, and I don't understand how the examples relate to the specific architectures we then describe. Could you mesh these together?

Author: LMK if you like this change!

--------------------------------------
Consider the 3 use cases in the following image:

> .. figure:: /includes/images/multi-region-types.png

Reviewer: Not sure if you made this image and so can edit it? But the second example isn't correct. It says "one region in multiple geographies" when it actually shows multiple regions in multiple geographies. The following description of it also says that you create a region in the US, Europe, and Asia, while the image shows the US, Europe, and Europe.
